- [Instructor] Now, let us see the demo
for JSP standard actions.
What we are going to do is, let's say we click on login
and enter the credentials.
After that, we click on view my profile
and this profile information that you see,
we are now going to display it
with the help of JSP standard actions.
So, that's what we are going to work out in the application.
The first thing that we have to do is we have
to add a method in DAO
to get the profile details of the user.
So, let's go to Eclipse, that's our application DAO
and that's on the third template that's ready with me.
This method is going to take a parameter of username.
That's going to be passed in from the servlet
and I'm going to connect to the database
and get the profile details.
So, let's get started on that.
The first thing is getting a connection to the database.
So, on line 102, I'm just going
to quickly take the connection object
with the help of the DB connection class.
Once that's done, let's go ahead and write the query
for selecting the user profile details.
So, I'm going to say string SQL equal
to select star from users,
that's the table from which we can pull
the entire profile information.
Where username equal to question mark.
So, we're going to pass this parameter dynamically
through the prepared statement object.
So, let's do that.
Prepared statement.
Now, let me check import of this.
Prepared statement, Java dot SQL, yeah.
And, let's take that on the connection object
and pass that SQL query.
And then, we'll set this parameter dynamically.
So, let me say statement dot set string
parameter index number one and the value would
be the username which is coming
in the form of the method parameter.
Now, once done, let's execute this query.
So, this will be statement dot execute query.
And, of course, this is going to return me something
of the result set type.
So, let's fetch that into the reference variable.
Now, let's iterate this result set.
Let's say set dot next.
And, what we are going to do is,
this is an API call, yeah.
So, what we want to do is we are going to take
that entire rule of that result set
and we are going to put it in a user object.
So, what I'm going to do is on line number 101,
I'll just create a user reference quickly.
Set it to null initially.
And, I'll come down in my while loop
and I'll say user equal to new user.
Let me get rid of this symbol here on 112.
That's a problem, yes.
Now, let's go ahead and set all the fields to the user
by retrieving them from that row.
So, I'm going to say user dot set
username set dot get string
and the column name is, of course, username.
Like that, we'll be able to set the rest of the fields.
So, user dot set first name.
We don't need the password to be displayed on the screen
so, I'm going to avoid that.
Get string.
This will be first underscore name.
Similarly, you can go ahead and say user dot set last name
and retrieve it from that results set
in the form of the string value.
So, I'll say last underscore name.
Then, we say user dot set activity
which is going to be set dot get string again
and feed the name of the column.
As for the age, it's an integer field
so, we are going to say user dot set age.
And, in order to retrieve that from the result set,
we are going to say set dot get int
and feed the name of the column age.
So, once we do this,
the only thing that remains is we have
to get this user object back to the calling method.
So, on line number 129, I'll just say return user.
That's all.
So, that's our method for retrieving the profile details
from the database.
Let's go ahead and see the next step.
We'll have to write the ViewProfile servlet class
which will collect username and call DAO layer
to fetch the profile information.
Now, in one of our previous videos,
we have already coded the ViewProfile servlet
where we were looking at the URL read writing demo.
So, we have already collected the username
on line number 18 from the session as an attribute.
So, the only thing that will remain here is
to call the DAO and get the details.
So, on line number 21, I'm going
to make an instance of application DAO
and I'll simply call that method
of get profile details and pass
on the username as an argument.
And, I'll collect all of this into a user object.
Let's call it user.
Yeah, that is good.
Okay, so let's also do one more thing.
We just have printed the username
so, let's collect it in a variable first.
On line 22, I'm going to say string username equal to
copy this that is coming from the session as an attribute
and paste it on line number 22
assigning it to this username variable.
Of course, this is going to return me something
of type object, so let's also cast it to the string type.
Now, once this is done, we are going
to store the entire profile information
in the request object.
So, this user object that has been returned
as a part of the get profile details method of the DAO,
let's go ahead and store it in the request object.
So, I'm going to say request dot set attribute.
Let's say user.
That's the key for that and the value is the actual object.
And once we do that, you just have to now display
on JSP using standard actions.
So, this information of profile that we have stored
in request, we are going to carry it to JSP
and then display all of that using the JSP standard actions.
So, if you see on line number 32,
I have already taken the control to the profile JSP.
So now, the rest of the code we'll see
on the profile dot JSP, which is this page.
So, let's take a look at this in the next video.